GPP
===

**[GPP](https://logological.org/gpp)** is a general-purpose
preprocessor with customizable syntax, suitable for a wide range of
preprocessing tasks. Its independence from any one programming
language makes it much more versatile than the C preprocessor (cpp),
while its syntax is lighter and more flexible than that of
[GNU m4](https://www.gnu.org/software/m4/). There are built-in macros
for use with C/C++, LaTeX, HTML, XHTML, and Prolog files.

GPP is [Free Software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html). It
is distributed under the terms of the [GNU Lesser General Public
Licence](https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lgpl.html).


Obtaining GPP
-------------

You can download portable source packages (as `.tar.bz2` files) for
the current and previous releases on
[GitHub](https://github.com/logological/gpp/releases) or
[nothingisreal.com](https://files.nothingisreal.com/software/gpp/).

Alternatively, you can [browse, download, or clone the development
version on GitHub](https://github.com/logological/gpp/), though note
that if you do this you will need to manually set up the build system
using the GNU Autotools rather than using the end-user installation
instructions described below.


Installation
------------

To configure, build, and install from the portable source packages,
see the included `INSTALL` file. (In brief, `./configure && make &&
make install` should work in most cases, provided you have `make` and
a C compiler installed.)

For other systems, including Microsoft Windows, you may be able to
follow the `INSTALL` instructions with the help of a Unix-like
environment such as [Cygwin](http://cygwin.com/)
or [MSYS](http://www.mingw.org/wiki/msys).  Failing that, copy the
file `config.h.in` to `src/config.h`.  Open the file and follow the
instructions inside to modify it based on your system's capabilities.
Then use a C compiler to compile the `gpp.c` file in the `src`
subdirectory with the macro `HAVE_CONFIG_H` defined.  On Microsoft
Windows systems, you may need to also define the macro `WIN_NT` if
your compiler does not already define it by default.

Links to binary packages for various operating systems are available
on the [GPP home page](https://logological.org/gpp).


Documentation
-------------

Extensive documentation, including usage examples, is included in the
portable source package and should get installed automatically as a
man page and an HTML file.  The HTML version is also available online
on the [GPP home page](https://logological.org/gpp).

Note that the documentation itself is generated by GPP using an input
file ([`gpp.pp`](doc/gpp.pp)) with macros that can automatically
produce HTML, LaTeX, or troff (man page) output.  Studying this file
should prove instructive, and manually running it through GPP can
serve as a basic test of the program's functionality.  Once you have
installed GPP, you can invoke it as follows to get instructions on how
to manually generate the documentation: `gpp -H /path/to/gpp.pp`


Citing GPP
----------

To refer to GPP in a publication, please use the following citation:

> Tristan Miller and Denis Auroux. [GPP, the generic preprocessor](https://dx.doi.org/10.26342/2020-64-4). _[Journal of Open Source Software](https://joss.theoj.org/)_, 5(51), July 2020. ISSN 2475-9066. DOI: [10.21105/joss.02400](https://dx.doi.org/10.26342/2020-64-4).


Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome.  Please post bug reports, feature requests,
and support requests on the [issue
tracker](https://github.com/logological/gpp/issues).  Feel free to
fork the project and send [pull
requests](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) for
integration into the main distribution.
